#summary How to make BSim parameter files

== Introduction ==
Simulations in BSim are defined in 'parameter files'. These files set the properties of all variables, controls the visual outputs and tells the program where to save data.

== How To Use The File ==
Parameter files are run as an argument to the BSimBatch program: 

 java bsim.BSimBatch ./Parameter_Files/BSimExp-Adhesion_3_Control.txt

Or opened within BSimApp using the 'Load simulation' button.

== Option Definitions ==

=== General Simulation Options ===
{{{
  DT:	0.005
}}}
The time step (in seconds) used by the simulation. This should be small enough that you do not get objects moving through each other or that two objects get so close in a single time step that the reactive force pushes them too far apart.
{{{
  VISCOSITY:	0.001 
}}}
The viscosity of the medium in Pa.s. This effects the speed of movement of the bacteria. The force of the bacteria should be selected based on this.
{{{
  PHYSICS_WELL_WIDTH_BACT_BACT:	0.0
  PHYSICS_WELL_DEPTH_BACT_BACT:	0.0
  PHYSICS_WELL_WIDTH_BACT_PART:	0.0
  PHYSICS_WELL_DEPTH_BACT_PART:	0.0
  PHYSICS_WELL_WIDTH_PART_PART:	0.0
  PHYSICS_WELL_DEPTH_PART_PART:	0.0
  PHYSICS_WELL_WIDTH_PART_BDRY:	0.0
  PHYSICS_WELL_DEPTH_PART_BDRY:	0.0
  PHYSICS_WELL_WIDTH_BACT_BDRY:	0.0
  PHYSICS_WELL_DEPTH_BACT_BDRY:	0.0
  PHYSICS_REACT_FORCE:	15.0
}}}
All interactions between bacteria, particles and boundaries are handled by a potential function. Each of these options specifies the relevant options for the linear piece-wise function. The same reaction force (when objects overlap) is shared by all objects.
{{{
  BACTERIA_RADIUS:	0.7
}}}
The default radius of a bacterium in microns.
{{{
  BACTERIA_FORCE_DOWN:	0.41
  BACTERIA_FORCE_UP:	0.4387
}}}
The force (in pN) that a bacterium exerts when moving up and down an Aspartate chemotactic gradient.
{{{
  BACTERIA_SPEED:  50.0
}}}
Currently unused.
{{{
  UP_RUN_LENGTH:	1.6
  DOWN_RUN_LENGTH:	0.7
  ISO_RUN_LENGTH:	0.86
}}}
The mean run length up and down an Aspartate chemotatic gradient (in seconds). Also the run length when in an isotropic region is given. This mean is for the exponential distribution used to model the run length distribution.
{{{
  PARTICLE_RADIUS:	10.0
}}}
The default radius of a particle in microns.

=== Bacteria, Particle and Boundary Sets ===
{{{
  CREATE_BACTERIUM_SINGLE:	x	y	diameter(0=default)
  CREATE_PARTICLE_SINGLE:	x	y	diameter(0=default)
  CREATE_BACTERIA_SET: p1x	p1y	width	height	number	type	diameter(0=default)
}}}
Creates a set of uniformly random distributed bacteria within a rectangular region defined by an upper left point, p1, and a width and height. If you wish the bacteria to be the default size then the diameter value should be 0, otherwise enter the size in microns. There are 5 types of bacteria:
  # Basic
  # Sensing
  # Co-ordinated
  # Recruit
  # Dead

{{{
  CREATE_PARTICLE_SET: p1x	p1y	width	height	number	type	diameter(0=default)
}}}
Creates a set of uniformly random distributed particles within a rectangular region defined by an upper left point, p1, and a width and height. At present there is only one type of particle and so this should be left as 1. If you wish the particle to be the default size then the diameter value should be 0, otherwise enter the size in microns.
{{{
  CREATE_BOUNDARY_SOLID:	p1x	p1y	p2x	p2y
}}}
Creates a straight solid boundary between two points.
{{{
  CREATE_BOUNDARY_WRAP:	p1x	p1y	p2x	p2y	pOffsetX	pOffsetY
}}}
Creates a straight wrapping boundary between two points (p1, p2) with an offset vector that is used to place objects that cross the boundary.

=== Chemical Fields ===
{{{
  FIELD_GOAL_DEFINE:	p1x	p1y	width	height	xboxes	yboxes	threshold	type	boundary	rate
  FIELD_GOAL_SETUP:	visible	type(1=LINEAR_X,2=LINEAR_Y)	startCon	endCon	unUsed(setToZero)	unUsed(setToZero)
  FIELD_COORD_DEFINE:	p1x	p1y	width	height	xboxes	yboxes	threshold	type	boundary	rate
  FIELD_COORD_SETUP:	visible	type(1=LINEAR_X,2=LINEAR_Y)	startCon	endCon	unUsed(setToZero)	unUsed(setToZero)
  FIELD_RECRUIT_DEFINE:	p1x	p1y	width	height	xboxes	yboxes	threshold	type	boundary	rate
  FIELD_GOAL_SETUP:	visible	type(1=LINEAR_X,2=LINEAR_Y)	startCon	endCon	unUsed(setToZero)	unUsed(setToZero)
}}}
  * The chemical field is defined by an upper left point ''p1'' with ''width'' and ''height''.
  * ''Boxes'' define the resolution of the gradient.
  * The ''threshold'' is the smallest difference in the chemotactic gradient that a bacteria can sense.
  * The '''type'' of field can either be fixed or diffuse being 1 and 2 respectively.
  * The ''boundary'' defines whether the chemical signal can diffuse out of the boundary or whether the chemicals are retained within, 1 is a fixed boundary whereas 2 is a leaky boundary.
  * The ''rate'' sets how quickly the chemcial can diffuse.

=== Visual Aids ===
{{{
  VISUAL_AID_BACTERIA_TRACE:	stepsSkipped 
  VISUAL_AID_AVG_BACTERIA_TRACE:	stepsSkipped
  VISUAL_AID_PARTICLE_TRACE:	stepsSkipped
  VISUAL_AID_CLOCK:	alwaysLeaveAs1
}}}
  * ''stepsSkipped'' is the number of time steps that are skipped between points on the traces.
  * If a visual aid is not required, simply remove the relevant line from the parameter file.

=== Simulation View ===
{{{
  SCREEN_HEIGHT:	pixels
  SCREEN_WIDTH:	pixels
  SCREEN_ZOOM:	xZoom
  SCREEN_MOVE:	xTrans	yTrans
}}}
  * ''xZoom'' is the magnification level of the simulation view. When xZoom = 1, 1 Pixel = 1 Micron, when xZoom = 2, 1 Pixel = 1/2 Micron and so on.
  * ''xTrans'' and ''yTrans'' are a vector that the simulation view is moved by.

=== Batch Settings ===
{{{
  VIDEO_FRAMES_SKIP:	framesToSkipInVideo
  RECORD_VIDEO:	flagToRecordVideo (1=true)
  DATA_FRAMES_SKIP:	framesToSkipInTextOutput
  SIMULATION_LENGTH:	numberOfTimeSteps
  SIMULATION_RUNS:	numberOfRuns
  EXPORT_DIR:	directoryPath (must exist)
}}}